Looking at the Country of China
The battle between the soul and the flesh never ceases, with lust and love taking the upper hand, fostering sins and consequently giving birth to shame. One can mend his ways if he harnesses the power of sorrow and remorse, and his new life flourishes in the period of transformation. Therefore, people were educated with benevolence, not to hide any past mistakes and faults, to confess their sins, and to seek the afterlife in modifying their behavior. This is the path of benevolent transformation, and also the foundation of a nation’s revival. When the spirit is no longer clouded in ignorance, looking back at the past induces profound regret. Detesting such a past and attempting to break free to forge a new path, there is no alternative but self-awakening!
However, as I observe the people of China, I cannot help but feel a sense of sorrow. In the past, politics and regions were oppressive, and human nature was abandoned. For thousands of years, the former people treated wealth and positions as their lives and regarded purge-spectating as a brilliant career. Wherever there was profit, they disregarded both gratitude and enmity, respecting a foreign king and killing their kind. In addition, they approached power as the second greatest fear. If these two things were out of control, they would endanger the whole country. Chinese history has alternated between order and chaos. Order when the former people submit to punishment, and chaos when they gain power. Hence, when examining the history of recent times, one can see a trail of evil and a trace of shame. With such sins and disgrace, where is the sorrow? Who will repent for this? The obstinate people remain unaware, blindly repeating mistakes, accumulating sin, and exacerbating shame. It is truly lamentable! This trend is evident during the Five Barbarian Dynasties, repeated during the Jin, the Yuan, and the Qing, yet people remain ignorant. Even during the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom era, they witnessed betrayal by generals like Zeng and Peng, power struggles between Yang and Li, and now, in this era, Yuan Shikai and his faction Feng Guozhang are no different from Zeng and Peng, while the jails of Jiao and Chen, and the  of Sun and Li echo the previous power struggles between Yang and Li. Now, Mr. Tao Chengzhang was assassinated, taking the pain of being wheeled away to me. How can this be described? All these people were alive, while Tao had died! The people of China would perpetually be blind and never regain consciousness.
Alas! Mr. Tao pursued great endeavors, bringing blessings to our people. Now, he died not at the hands of outsiders but at those of his own kind. Is this his destiny? His death may have been plotted by enemies or driven by his selfish fellow; it may be unknown. However, what is certain is that this act was committed at the hands of the Han people themselves. The morals of The Spring and Autumn Annals, advocates that us unite to resist foreign aggression, can we really distinguish the difference based on lineage records at the moment of crisis? The different ethnicity and divergent interests would strengthen the kinship, but estrange others. Even wild people in fights do not harm their own, but descendants of the Yan and Huang Emperors turn their blades against their own kind. I really hope that the emperors cherish these descendants!
The coming days will be difficult; divine wrath will be fierce. I wish to climb a high hill and call out to the people of this land: Repent! If you awaken, to take your ancestral virtues, to lament and repent in the vast wilderness, to pour out your sorrow from within, then you shall be enlightened. Choose the preservation of your spirit and die, rather than sacrificing it to worldly desires for the sake of living. The sages have said, ‘Only in the tomb does resurrection begin; this is the beginning of hope.’ Even if this is not the case and resurrection is uncertain, the tranquility and purity of the secluded mound are far superior to the wicked filth of this ruin. Alas! This is my ultimate hope.
